Verse 1:
'Argyll is my name, and you may think it strange,
To live at a court, and never to change
all falsehood and flattery I do disdain
In my secret thoughts nae guile does remain.
My King and my country's foes I have fac'd
in city or battle I ne'er was disgrac'd
I do ev'ry thing for my country's weel
an I'll feast upon bannocks o' barley meal.'

Unfortunately there is not a lot of information available on this song. It first appeared in Herd's 'Collection' (1776) under the title of its first line 'My name is Argyll'. It can occasionally now be found under the alternative title of 'The Fisherman's Frolic'. It is believed to be of Celtic origin but there is some debate over whether it has Irish or Highland characteristics, despite the subject area being Argyll. It has now been adopted by the Canadian Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders as one of their signature tunes.

The 'Scots Musical Museum' 

----------------------------------------------
John, Duke of Argyll and Greenwich, is supposed to be the author of the well-known Scotch song, which, for popularity, almost equals "The roast beef of old England." It begins thus:--

Argyll is my name and you may think it strange,
To live at a court and never to change
Falsehood and flattery I do disdain,
In my secret thoughts nae guile does remain."

In the third verse the author of the song represents this "Argyll" returning to the Highlands, and arraying himself in the Highland dress.

p. 347

1. Argyll is my name and you may think it strange,
To live at a court and never to change
All falsehood and flattery I do disdain,
In my secret thoughts nae guile does remain."
My King and my country's foes I have fac'd
In city or battle I ne'er was disgrac'd
I do ev'ry thing for my country's weel
An I'll feast upon bannocks o' barley meal.'

2. Adieu to the  revels of London town


3. "I'll quickly lay down my sword and my gun,
And I'll put my plaid and my bonnet on,
Wi' my plaiding, stockings, and leather heel'd shoon,
They'll mak me appear a fine sprightly loon.
And when I am drest thus frae tap to tae,
Hame to my Maggie I think for to gae;
Wi' my claymore hinging down to my heel,
To whang at the bannocks o' barley meal."

4. I'll buy a

5. If my Maggie should chance to bring me a son,
He'll fight for his King as his daddy has done;
I'll hang up my sword with an old soldier's pride-
Oh, may he be worthy to wear't on his side!
I pant for the breeze of my loved native place,
I long for the smile of each welcoming face-
I'll aff to the Highlands as fast's I can reel,
And feast upon bannocks o' barley-meal.


Whether this duke ever wore the dress described or not, the author of this song clearly considered it a farmer's dress; and if the popular tale is to be credited, some courtiers who invited him to a dinner of barley meal brose, were called to account for their joke. He praised the food set before him, and acted up to his principles; dined on the barley meal, but slew the man who had tried to make game of him.

------------------------------------------
Popular Tales of the West Highlands Vol_ IV Dress.htm
